add NVIDIA Tegra to the Anywhere wishlist (#103)
Ultramarine-Linux/wiki: src/content/docs/en/anywhere/tegra.mdx

---
title: "NVIDIA Tegra (Anywhere)"
description: "NVIDIA Tegra devices in the Ultramarine Anywhere Initiative"
---

import Alert from "../../../../components/Docs/Alert.astro";

<Alert type="info">
  This device type is still in the **Wishlist Phase**. All information on this
  page is subject to change.
</Alert>

> While our team has some experience with NVIDIA Tegra devices, especially the Nintendo Switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the team has a modern Tegra device, most commonly, the Nintendo Switch.
```

> We have not yet started work on supporting these devices in Ultramarine, and they are still in the **Wishlist Phase**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is interest in running Ultramarine on these devices, but we haven’t started work on a port yet.
```

---
title: "NVIDIA Tegra (Anywhere)"
description: "NVIDIA Tegra devices in the Ultramarine Anywhere Initiative"
---

import Alert from "../../../../components/Docs/Alert.astro";

<Alert type="info">
  This device type is still in the **Wishlist Phase**. All information on this
  page is subject to change.
</Alert>

Most of the team has a modern Tegra device, most commonly, the Nintendo Switch.
There is interest in running Ultramarine on these devices, but we haven’t started work on a port yet.

In the meanwhile, we are tracking the progress of the [Switchroot](https://switchroot.org/) project, which aims to bring Linux to the Nintendo Switch and
other Tegra-based SoCs, such as the Jetson/Xavier/Orin series, the NVIDIA Shield and more.

> The boot process for Tegra devices is similar to other ARM-based Android devices, with slight differences especially

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The boot process for Tegra devices is similar to other ARM-based Android devices, but with slight differences, especially
```

for the Nintendo Switch since it uses a completely custom firmware, due to Nintendo's security measures.
We'll be mostly documenting the process for the Switch, but the same principles apply to other Tegra devices.

## Nintendo Switch

> The Switch loads from a 32GB (or 64GB if you have an OLED version) eMMC storage, which is a detachable module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Switch loads from a 32GB (or 64GB on the OLED model) eMMC, which is a detachable module.
```

Older revisions of the Switch with the X1 SoC (the original 2017 launch model, AKA the "White Box" or "Erista" SoC)

> are the most compatible with Linux, since the hardware support for the X1 itself has been mainlined in the Linux kernel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are the most compatible with Linux, since the hardware support for the X1 itself has been mainlined in the Linux kernel.
```

> and are vulnerable to [CVE-2018-6242 (Fusée Gelée)](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2018-6242) which allows for arbitrary code execution in the boot ROM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is vulnerable to [CVE-2018-6242 (Fusée Gelée)](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2018-6242) which allows for arbitrary code execution in the boot ROM.
```

> Newer revisions of the Switch with the X1+ SoC (the 2019 revision, AKA the "Red Box" or "Mariko" SoC) and later models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Newer revisions of the Switch with the X1+ SoC (the 2019 revision, AKA "Red Box" or "Mariko" SoC) and later models
```

> (i.e the Switch Lite and OLED models, also codenamed "Aula"), are not vulnerable to Fusée Gelée, and require a different exploit which is a combination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
like the Lite and OLED models (also codenamed "Aula") are not vulnerable to Fusée Gelée, and require a different exploit which is a combination
```

> of eMMC interception and a reset glitch to load into a custom bootloader. This requires hardware modifications and is not as straightforward as the original exploit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of eMMC interception and a reset glitch to load a custom bootloader. This requires hardware modifications and is not as straightforward as the original exploit.
```
```suggestion
of eMMC interception and a reset glitch to load into a custom bootloader. This requires hardware modifications and is not as straightforward as the original exploit.
```

"Mariko" SoCs are also not yet supported by the mainline Linux kernel, and require a custom kernel to boot.

The most common bootloader payload used to run arbitrary code on the Switch is [hekate](https://github.com/ctcaer/hekate),

> which is a custom bootloader that provides a graphical boot menu and a partition manager. It can also be used to dump the eMMC storage data and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a custom bootloader that provides a graphical boot menu and partition manager. It can also be used to dump the eMMC storage data and
```

> create what's called an "emuMMC" which is a virtualized eMMC partition that can be used to run a backup image of [Horizon OS]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create an "emuMMC” (a virtualized eMMC partition that can be used to run a backup image of HorizonOS, the stock firmware
```

> without modifying the actual eMMC data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without modifying the actual eMMC data.)
```

## Implementation

> The Switchroot boot process creates a boot menu entry in hekate that loads [U-Boot], which in turn reads a custom boot script that does the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Switchroot boot process creates a boot menu entry in Hekate that loads [U-Boot], which in turn reads a custom boot script that does the following:
```
